README.md, before:

# pwru (packet, where are you?)

![logo](logo.png "Detective Gopher is looking for packet traces left by eBPF bee")

`pwru` is an [eBPF](https://ebpf.io)-based tool for tracing network packets in
the Linux kernel with advanced filtering capabilities. It allows fine-grained
introspection of kernel state to facilitate debugging network connectivity issues.

The following example shows where the packets of a `curl` request are dropped
after installing an IP tables rule:

![demo](demo.gif)

## Running

### Requirements

`pwru` requires >= 5.3 kernel to run. For `--output-skb` >= 5.9 kernel is required.

The following kernel configuration is required.

|           Option        |        Note            |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------- |
| CONFIG_DEBUG_INFO_BTF=y | Available since >= 5.3 |
| CONFIG_KPROBES=y        |                        |
| CONFIG_PERF_EVENTS=y    |                        |
| CONFIG_BPF=y            |                        |
| CONFIG_BPF_SYSCALL=y    |                        |

You can use `zgrep $OPTION /proc/config.gz` to validate whether option is enabled.

### Downloading

You can download the statically linked executable for x86\_64 and amd64 from the
[release page](https://github.com/cilium/pwru/releases).

### Usage

```
$ pwru --help
Usage of ./pwru:
      --filter-dst-ip string      filter destination IP addr
      --filter-dst-port uint16    filter destination port
      --filter-func string        filter kernel functions to be probed by name (exact match, supports RE2 regular expression)
      --filter-mark uint32        filter skb mark
      --filter-netns uint32       filter netns inode
      --filter-proto string       filter L4 protocol (tcp, udp, icmp, icmp6)
      --filter-src-ip string      filter source IP addr
      --filter-src-port uint16    filter source port
      --kernel-btf string         specify kernel BTF file
      --kmods strings             list of kernel modules names to attach to
      --output-limit-lines uint   exit the program after the number of events has been received/printed
      --output-meta               print skb metadata
      --output-skb                print skb
      --output-stack              print stack
      --output-tuple              print L4 tuple
      --per-cpu-buffer int        per CPU buffer in bytes (default 4096)
      --timestamp string          print timestamp per skb ("current", "relative", "none") (default "none")
      --version                   show pwru version and exit
```

If multiple filters are specified, all of them have to match in order for a
packet to be traced.

The `--filter-func` switch does an exact match on function names i.e.
`--filter-func=foo` only matches `foo()`; for a wildcarded match, try
`--filter-func=".*foo.*"` instead.

### Running with Docker

Docker images for `pwru` are published at https://hub.docker.com/r/cilium/pwru.

An example how to run `pwru` with Docker:

```
docker run --privileged --rm -t --pid=host -v /sys/kernel/debug/tracing:/sys/kernel/debug/tracing cilium/pwru --filter-dst-ip=1.1.1.1
```

### Running on Kubernetes

The following example shows how to run `pwru` on a given node:
```
NODE=node-foobar
kubectl run pwru \
    --image=cilium/pwru:latest \
    --privileged=true \
    --attach=true -i=true --tty=true --rm=true \
    --overrides='{"apiVersion":"v1","spec":{"nodeSelector":{"kubernetes.io/hostname":"'$NODE'"}, "hostNetwork": true, "hostPID": true}}' \
    -- --filter-dst-ip=1.1.1.1 --output-tuple
```

### Running on Vagrant

If you have [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/) installed, you can run the
above example with the following commands.

1. In a terminal (terminal 1), bring up the Vagrant box:
   ```console
   $ vagrant up
   ```
   This will take a few minutes to download and provision the box.

2. Connect to the Vagrant box:
   ```console
   $ vagrant ssh
   ```

3. Build `pwru`:
   ```console
   $ cd /pwru
   $ make
   ```

4. Run `pwru`:
   ```console
   $ sudo ./pwru --filter-dst-ip=1.1.1.1 --filter-dst-port=80 --filter-proto=tcp --output-tuple
   ```

5. In a new terminal (terminal 2), connect to the Vagrant box:
   ```console
   $ vagrant ssh
   ```

6. In terminal 2, run `curl` to generate some traffic to 1.1.1.1:
   ```console
   $ curl 1.1.1.1
   ```
   Observe the output of `pwru` in terminal 1.

7. In terminal 2, add an `iptables` rule to block traffic to 1.1.1.1:
   ```console
   $ sudo iptables -t filter -I OUTPUT 1 -m tcp --proto tcp --dst 1.1.1.1/32 -j DROP
   ```

8. In terminal 2, run `curl` to generate some traffic to 1.1.1.1:
   ```console
   $ curl 1.1.1.1
   ```
   Observe the output of `pwru` in terminal 1.

9. To clean up, press `Ctrl+C` to terminate `pwru` in terminal 1, exit both
   shells, and run:
   ```console
   $ vagrant destroy
   ```

## Developing

### Dependencies

* Go >= 1.16
* LLVM/clang >= 1.12

### Building

```
make
```

Alternatively, you can build in the Docker container:

```
make release
```

## Contributing

`pwru` is an open source project licensed under [GPLv2](LICENSE). Everybody is
welcome to contribute. Contributors are required to follow the
[Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/code-of-conduct/)
and must adhere to the [Developer Certificate of Origin](https://developercertificate.org/)
by adding a Signed-off-by line to their commit messages.

## Logo Credits

The detective gopher is based on the Go gopher designed by Renee French.

Commit message:

Update docker/Kubernetes deployment instructions in README
Using the current `Running pwru with Docker` command throws the following error
    in Ubuntu 22.04/22.10

```
$> docker run --privileged --rm -t --pid=host -v /sys/kernel/debug/tracing:/sys/kernel/debug/tracing cilium/pwru --filter-dst-ip=1.1.1.1
    docker: Error response from daemon: error while creating mount source path '/sys/kernel/debug/tracing': mkdir /sys/kernel/debug/tracing: no such file or directory.
```

This is similar to the issue reported here: https://forums.docker.com/t/mount-subpath-of-debugfs/123525

One way to resolve this would be to mount the entire `/sys/kernel/debug` to the `pwru` image.

Similar error is surfaced when applying the Kubernetes spec mentioned in the README. I could get `pwru` running on Kubernetes node only after creating and attaching volume.

Signed-off-by: Anubhab Majumdar <anmajumdar@microsoft.com>

README.md, after:

# pwru (packet, where are you?)

![logo](logo.png "Detective Gopher is looking for packet traces left by eBPF bee")

`pwru` is an [eBPF](https://ebpf.io)-based tool for tracing network packets in
the Linux kernel with advanced filtering capabilities. It allows fine-grained
introspection of kernel state to facilitate debugging network connectivity issues.

The following example shows where the packets of a `curl` request are dropped
after installing an IP tables rule:

![demo](demo.gif)

## Running

### Requirements

`pwru` requires >= 5.3 kernel to run. For `--output-skb` >= 5.9 kernel is required.

The following kernel configuration is required.

|           Option        |        Note            |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------- |
| CONFIG_DEBUG_INFO_BTF=y | Available since >= 5.3 |
| CONFIG_KPROBES=y        |                        |
| CONFIG_PERF_EVENTS=y    |                        |
| CONFIG_BPF=y            |                        |
| CONFIG_BPF_SYSCALL=y    |                        |

You can use `zgrep $OPTION /proc/config.gz` to validate whether option is enabled.

### Downloading

You can download the statically linked executable for x86\_64 and amd64 from the
[release page](https://github.com/cilium/pwru/releases).

### Usage

```
$ pwru --help
Usage of ./pwru:
      --filter-dst-ip string      filter destination IP addr
      --filter-dst-port uint16    filter destination port
      --filter-func string        filter kernel functions to be probed by name (exact match, supports RE2 regular expression)
      --filter-mark uint32        filter skb mark
      --filter-netns uint32       filter netns inode
      --filter-proto string       filter L4 protocol (tcp, udp, icmp, icmp6)
      --filter-src-ip string      filter source IP addr
      --filter-src-port uint16    filter source port
      --kernel-btf string         specify kernel BTF file
      --kmods strings             list of kernel modules names to attach to
      --output-limit-lines uint   exit the program after the number of events has been received/printed
      --output-meta               print skb metadata
      --output-skb                print skb
      --output-stack              print stack
      --output-tuple              print L4 tuple
      --per-cpu-buffer int        per CPU buffer in bytes (default 4096)
      --timestamp string          print timestamp per skb ("current", "relative", "none") (default "none")
      --version                   show pwru version and exit
```

If multiple filters are specified, all of them have to match in order for a
packet to be traced.

The `--filter-func` switch does an exact match on function names i.e.
`--filter-func=foo` only matches `foo()`; for a wildcarded match, try
`--filter-func=".*foo.*"` instead.

### Running with Docker

Docker images for `pwru` are published at https://hub.docker.com/r/cilium/pwru.

An example how to run `pwru` with Docker:

```
docker run --privileged --rm -t --pid=host -v /sys/kernel/debug/tracing:/sys/kernel/debug/tracing cilium/pwru --filter-dst-ip=1.1.1.1
```

Note: In case the path `/sys/kernel/debug/tracing` doesn't exist in the container, you can see error similar to 
```
docker: Error response from daemon: error while creating mount source path '/sys/kernel/debug/tracing': mkdir /sys/kernel/debug/tracing: no such file or directory
```
One way to avoid this is to mount the entire `/sys/kernel/debug` path from host to the container.
```
docker run --privileged --rm -t --pid=host -v /sys/kernel/debug:/sys/kernel/debug cilium/pwru --filter-dst-ip=1.1.1.1
```

### Running on Kubernetes

The following example shows how to run `pwru` on a given node:
```
NODE=node-foobar
kubectl run pwru \
    --image=cilium/pwru:latest \
    --privileged=true \
    --attach=true -i=true --tty=true --rm=true \
    --overrides='{"apiVersion":"v1","spec":{"nodeSelector":{"kubernetes.io/hostname":"'$NODE'"}, "hostNetwork": true, "hostPID": true}}' \
    -- --filter-dst-ip=1.1.1.1 --output-tuple
```

Note: You may need to create a volume for `/sys/kernel/debug/tracing` and mount it for the`pwru` pod. Similar to docker, if `/sys/kernel/debug/tracing` path doesn't exist in the container, mount entire `/sys/kernel/debug` to the container.

### Running on Vagrant

If you have [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/) installed, you can run the
above example with the following commands.

1. In a terminal (terminal 1), bring up the Vagrant box:
   ```console
   $ vagrant up
   ```
   This will take a few minutes to download and provision the box.

2. Connect to the Vagrant box:
   ```console
   $ vagrant ssh
   ```

3. Build `pwru`:
   ```console
   $ cd /pwru
   $ make
   ```

4. Run `pwru`:
   ```console
   $ sudo ./pwru --filter-dst-ip=1.1.1.1 --filter-dst-port=80 --filter-proto=tcp --output-tuple
   ```

5. In a new terminal (terminal 2), connect to the Vagrant box:
   ```console
   $ vagrant ssh
   ```

6. In terminal 2, run `curl` to generate some traffic to 1.1.1.1:
   ```console
   $ curl 1.1.1.1
   ```
   Observe the output of `pwru` in terminal 1.

7. In terminal 2, add an `iptables` rule to block traffic to 1.1.1.1:
   ```console
   $ sudo iptables -t filter -I OUTPUT 1 -m tcp --proto tcp --dst 1.1.1.1/32 -j DROP
   ```

8. In terminal 2, run `curl` to generate some traffic to 1.1.1.1:
   ```console
   $ curl 1.1.1.1
   ```
   Observe the output of `pwru` in terminal 1.

9. To clean up, press `Ctrl+C` to terminate `pwru` in terminal 1, exit both
   shells, and run:
   ```console
   $ vagrant destroy
   ```

## Developing

### Dependencies

* Go >= 1.16
* LLVM/clang >= 1.12

### Building

```
make
```

Alternatively, you can build in the Docker container:

```
make release
```

## Contributing

`pwru` is an open source project licensed under [GPLv2](LICENSE). Everybody is
welcome to contribute. Contributors are required to follow the
[Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/code-of-conduct/)
and must adhere to the [Developer Certificate of Origin](https://developercertificate.org/)
by adding a Signed-off-by line to their commit messages.

## Logo Credits

The detective gopher is based on the Go gopher designed by Renee French.
